In this edition
ESMA launches selection of CTP for
OTC derivatives
ESMA signs MoU with the Reserve
Bank of India
ESMA signs MoU with UK regulators
under DORA
ESMA’S DIGITAL AND DATA
STRATEGIES SUPPORT SUPERVISION
OF EU FINANCIAL MARKETS
Spotlight on Markets – January & February 2026
© peshkov, GettyImages-2214346556
EDITION
N° 67

In this issue
ESMA in January and February
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026
2
ESMA’s Digital and Data strategies support supervision of
EU financial markets
4
12ESMA promotes clarity in communications on ESG
strategies
7ESMA launches selection of Consolidated Tape Provider
for OTC derivatives
ESMA signs Memorandum of Understanding with the
Reserve Bank of India
8
9The European Supervisory Authorities and UK financial
regulators sign Memorandum of Understanding on
oversight of critical ICT third-party service providers
under DORA
ESAs publish joint Guidelines on ESG stress testing 10

In this issue
3
Look ahead
Contact info 19
Events 18
15ESAs’ Joint Board of Appeal rules on reimbursement of
costs in an appeal brought by NOVIS Insurance Company
against the European Insurance and Occupational
Pensions Authority (EIOPA)
14ESMA publishes report on cross-border marketing of
funds including statistics on notifications
13Principles for risk-based supervision: a critical pillar for
ESMA’s simplification and burden reduction efforts
16Commissioner Maria Luís Albuquerque visits ESMA
headquarters.
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026
17ESMA launches selection process for its next Chair

“ESMA is committed to smarter regulation and
supervision, and this drives our dual focus on
digitalisation and simplification. These two strategies
support a digitally mature, resilient and agile authority
that understands the importance of data for its
community.
By helping to drive the digital transformation of the
European System of Financial Supervision (ESFS), we
reinforce a more efficient, transparent, and resilient
financial ecosystem for the EU."
Verena Ross, Chair
4
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, has adopted a new Digital Strategy and
updated its Data Strategy. They reflect ESMA’s commitment to smarter
regulatory reporting and technology-driven supervision, promote synergies
and innovation while reducing unnecessary complexity.
ESMA’s Digital and Data strategies
support supervision of EU financial
markets
The digital strategy aims to continue ESMA’s digital transformation, while the
Data Strategy update is oriented to capitalise on opportunities to simplify, better
integrate and streamline data management and technology.
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026

5
The new Digital Strategy 2026–2028 sets out a roadmap for innovation,
efficiency, and resilience. The key objectives include:
Building EU digital synergies
Enhancing digital capabilities of ESMA and the European System of Financial
Supervision (ESFS)
Bolstering operational efficiency
Establishing a secure and future-ready ecosystem.
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026

6
The Data Strategy 2023–2028 has been updated to reflect the focus on burden
reduction, the evolving technological landscape, and ESMA’s desire for
unlocking efficiency opportunities. While its key objectives remain the same, the
key new actions include:
Flagship initiatives related to streamlining supervisory reporting, relating to
transaction data and in the funds domain
Expanding the capacity of the ESMA Data Platform to benefit national and
European authorities
Implementing next phases of the MiCA joint supervisory tool for crypto-
market monitoring
Finalising the development of the European Single Access Point (ESAP).
These goals are in line with ESMA’s wider simplification and burden reduction
initiative launched last year.
With the alignment of both the digital and data strategies, ESMA ensures that
innovation and technology translate into tangible benefits for stakeholders, with
more possibilities for synergies and digital transformation across ESMA and the
ESFS at large.
Next steps

ESMA’s Data and Digital work will be guided by the roadmaps under both
strategies. By 2029 ESMA expects to converge the two into one unified
strategy.
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026

ESMA launches selection of
Consolidated Tape Provider for OTC
derivatives
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, is launching the first selection procedure for
the Consolidated Tape Provider (CTP) for over the counter (OTC) derivatives.
Entities interested to apply are encouraged to register and submit their
requests to participate in the selection procedure by 11 February 2026.
The CTP aims to enhance market transparency and efficiency by consolidating
post-trade data from data contributors, such as trading venues, into a single and
continuous electronic stream. This consolidated view of market activity will help
market participants to access accurate and timely information and make better-
informed decisions, leading to more efficient price discovery and contributing to
the Savings and Investment Union (SIU).
The CTP will collect and disseminate data on OTC derivatives based on the
proposals in ESMA’s Final Report on transparency for derivatives.
The contract notice and procurement documents are available on the EU Funding
& Tenders Portal.
Next steps

ESMA will assess the received requests against the exclusion and selection
criteria and will invite the successful candidates to submit their application.
Any questions during the application period will be answered via the Portal.
ESMA intends to adopt a reasoned decision on the selected applicant by early
July 2026.
The successful applicant will be selected to operate the CTP for OTC
derivatives for a period of five years and invited to apply for authorisation with
ESMA. Once authorised, the CTP will be supervised by ESMA. Further
information about the process is available on the dedicated webpage.
7
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026

This agreement marks a significant step towards restoring access for EU
clearing members to Indian central counterparties and follows two years of
sustained engagement between ESMA and RBI. It reflects ESMA’s strong
commitment to international supervisory cooperation and mutual support to
advance safe, resilient and open financial markets.
8
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, has signed a Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to facilitate
cooperation and exchange of information for the recognition of central
counterparties (CCPs) established in India and supervised by RBI.
ESMA signs Memorandum of
Understanding with the Reserve Bank
of India
Next steps
The MoU is a key requirement under Article 25 of the European Market
Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) for the recognition by ESMA of third-country
CCPs. It allows the Clearing Corporation of India Ltd (CCIL), a CCP established in
India and supervised by RBI, to re-apply for recognition under EMIR.
ESMA is also continuing discussions
with the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (SEBI) and the International
Financial Services Centres Authority
(IFSCA) to conclude similar cooperation
arrangements.
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026

The MoU has been prepared in accordance with DORA Articles 36, 44, and
49, which cover the ESAs’ oversight powers, international cooperation, and
financial cross-sector exercises, communication and cooperation.
To exchange information with a third-country authority, the ESAs must
ensure that the confidentiality and professional secrecy regime in the third
country is equivalent to that in the EU. Therefore, before signing this MoU,
the ESAs conducted an assessment that confirmed the UK confidentiality
and professional secrecy regime’s equivalence with that in DORA.
Legal basis and background
9
The European Supervisory Authorities (EBA, EIOPA and ESMA – the ESAs) have
today signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Bank of
England (BoE), the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), and the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA). This agreement enhances the cooperation between
the authorities to oversee critical ICT third-party service providers (CTPPs) as
required by the Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA).
The European Supervisory Authorities
and UK financial regulators sign
Memorandum of Understanding on
oversight of critical ICT third-party
service providers under DORA
The MoU establishes clear principles and procedures for cooperation,
information sharing and coordination of oversight activities between the relevant
authorities responsible for EU CTPPs/UK CTPs oversight. The MoU aims at
enhancing third-party risk management and contributing to the overall
operational resilience of the financial sector in the EU and UK through strong
cross-border cooperation.
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026

10
The European Supervisory Authorities (EBA, EIOPA and ESMA - the ESAs)
published today their Joint Guidelines on environmental, social, and
governance (ESG) stress testing. These Guidelines provide national insurance
and banking supervisors with clear guidance on how to integrate ESG risks
into supervisory stress tests, both when using established frameworks and
when conducting complementary assessments of ESG risk impacts.
ESAs publish joint Guidelines on ESG
stress testing
The Guidelines set common standards for embedding ESG risks into stress
testing methodologies across the EU’s financial system. They provide guidance
on designing ESG-inclusive stress tests and outline the necessary
organisational and governance arrangements.
The Guidelines are designed to support a consistent, long-term approach to
ESG stress testing while allowing flexibility to accommodate future
methodological advances and improvements in data availability. Importantly,
they do not introduce new requirements for competent authorities to carry out
ESG-focused supervisory stress tests.
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026

Read the Joint Guidelines on ESG stress testing here
The Final Report on the Joint ESAs Guidelines on ESG stress testing follows
a public consultation and sets out the final text of the Guidelines, together
with an assessment of the comments received during the consultation
process. These Guidelines are designed to ensure consistency, long-term
perspective, and common standards for ESG risk assessment
methodologies in line with Article 100(4) of the Capital Requirements
Directive (CRD - Directive 2013/36/EU) and Article 304c (3) of Solvency II
(Directive 2009/138/EC), which require the publication of the joint
Guidelines by 10 January 2026.
Background
Next steps
The Guidelines will be subject to a ‘comply or explain’ procedure by the National
Competent Authorities and will be translated into all the official languages of the
EU in the first quarter of 2026.
11
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026

The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, published today a second thematic note
on sustainability-related claims, focusing on ESG strategies.
ESMA promotes clarity in
communications on ESG strategies
The note concentrates on ESG integration and ESG exclusions, as references to
these strategies are often made by market participants and widely referenced in
marketing communications directed to retail investors.
ESG integration and ESG exclusions can mean different things to different
market participants. Lack of transparency when using these terms poses a
notable greenwashing risk to investors. The aim of the note is not to define
these strategies, but to call on market participants to be clear about what they
mean when referencing them.
Similarly to the first thematic note on ESG credentials, this publication offers
practical do’s and don’ts for making sustainability claims. These are illustrated
through concrete examples of good and poor practices that are based on
observed market practices.
12
Read the thematic note on sustainability-related
claims, focusing on ESG strategies.
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026

The principles on risk-based supervision outline key concepts and foundational
elements for use by ESMA and National Competent Authorities (NCAs), and
provide a structured framework for identifying, assessing, prioritising and
addressing risks. They are designed to support a supervisory framework that is
consistent, proportionate, and effective across the Union.
A risk-based approach is the cornerstone of EU securities markets supervision,
allowing regulators to focus on and address risks that pose the greatest threats
to investor protection, financial stability, and orderly markets. Risk-based
supervision is also one of ESMA’s flagship projects supporting the simplification
and burden reduction agenda, through its contribution to boosting supervisory
efficiency and value.
Principles for risk-based supervision: a
critical pillar for ESMA’s simplification
and burden reduction efforts
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, published today its principles for risk-
based supervision. These principles support a common and effective EU-wide
supervisory culture and strengthen the EU single market.
Next steps
ESMA and NCAs will work together to advance the implementation of effective
risk-based supervision and foster high quality supervisory outcomes for market
participants.
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026
13

Drawing on input from National Competent Authorities, the report finds that
national rules governing the marketing of funds have not undergone any
significant changes since the publication of the second report in 2023.
ESMA has used the opportunity of this report to provide stakeholders with
statistics on the volume of cross-border fund notifications. In particular, the
analysis shows that Luxembourg and Ireland are the leading notifying
jurisdictions, accounting for 59% and 30% respectively. UCITS notifications
comprise 56% of the total fund notifications, while AIFs account for 44%. This
information was retrieved from the ESMA database, which lists all notifications of
cross-border marketing of funds.
14
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, has today published its third report on
marketing requirements and marketing communications under the
Regulation on cross-border distribution of funds. For the first time, the report
includes statistics on notifications of cross-border marketing of funds.
ESMA publishes report on cross-border
marketing of funds including statistics
on notifications
The report will now be submitted to the European Parliament, the Council
and the European Commission.
Background
Report on Marketing requirements and marketing communications
under the regulation on cross-border distribution of funds
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026

Its Decision of 30 July 2024, the Board had ordered EIOPA to reimburse NOVIS’
costs for the appeal. The breakdown of costs subsequently submitted by NOVIS
was contested by EIOPA. The matter was brought to the Board for a decision.
In its Decision of 03 December 2025, the Board confirmed its competence to
decide on the allocation and taxation of costs. It clarified that only costs that are
objectively necessary and reasonable may be reimbursed. The Board also
decided on those aspects, ruling on a total amount of costs to be reimbursed by
EIOPA.
ESAs’ Joint Board of Appeal rules on
reimbursement of costs in an appeal
brought by NOVIS Insurance Company
against the European Insurance and
Occupational Pensions Authority
(EIOPA)
The Joint Board of Appeal (“The Board”) of the European Supervisory
Authorities (ESAs) – the EBA, ESMA, EIOPA – has issued its decision on costs
arising in the appeal brought by NOVIS Insurance Company, NOVIS
Versicherungsgesellschaft, NOVIS Compagnia di Assicurazioni, and NOVIS
Poisťovňa a.s. (“NOVIS”) against the European Insurance and Occupational
Pensions Authority (“EIOPA”).
15
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026

16
Commissioner Maria Luís Albuquerque
visits ESMA headquarters
Maria Luís Albuquerque, EU Commissioner for Financial Services and the
Savings and Investments Union, visited ESMA for forward-looking discussions
on the latest developments in EU financial markets.
The exchange focused on how Europe can foster stronger, more stable and
more attractive markets amid ongoing global uncertainty. Key topics included
strengthening market integration, reducing fragmentation, and ensuring
consistent application and supervision of rules across Member States.
Participants also explored how enhanced use of data, digitalisation and new
market infrastructures can drive more efficient, resilient and competitive
markets.
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026

16
ESMA launches selection process for
its next Chair
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, has launched the selection procedure for
the position of ESMA Chair. This key leadership role offers the opportunity to
shape the future of Europe’s financial markets and steer the organisation
through an evolving regulatory and supervisory landscape.
As a full ‑ time, independent professional based in Paris, the Chair leads ESMA’s
strategic direction and represents the Authority at the highest institutional level.
The successful candidate will chair both the Board of Supervisors and the
Management Board, ensuring effective governance, strategic oversight and the
delivery of ESMA’s priorities.
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026
In line with the ESMA Regulation, the Chair’s main responsibilities include:
Chairing meetings and setting the agendas of the Board of Supervisors and
the Management Board.
Preparing the work of the Board of Supervisors.
Acting as ESMA’s main external representative.
Developing ESMA’s long ‑ term strategy and ensuring delivery on its
objectives.
Implementing tasks and decisions assigned by the Board of Supervisors.
Ensuring accountability and representing ESMA before the European
Parliament in annual hearings on ESMA’s performance.
Leading ESMA through potential changes arising from the European
Commission’s legislative proposal on market integration and supervision,
including adjustments to ESMA’s governance framework.
Role and Responsibilities

16
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026
The position offers the opportunity to contribute to the effective functioning,
stability and integrity of EU financial markets. ESMA provides a dynamic,
multicultural and inclusive working environment, bringing together professionals
from across the EU committed to investor protection and orderly markets.
A Strategic and Multicultural Working Environment
Applications are open until 3 March 2026.
For further details on the role and application process, please consult the
vacancy notice.
Applications

17
Events
Click on the event
Date
Workshop on the Authorisation of ESG Rating Providers31 Mar
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026
ESMA’s Conference 2026: A new era for EU
capital markets21 May
Save the date: Webinar on AI Adoption Risk Analysis3 Mar
ESMA protects investors – and we have
brought this commitment to Instagram.
Connecting with retail investors, we aim
to help them make informed financial
decisions. Find us under the handle
@ESMAcomms.
Join us for practical tips, fun polls, and
interactive quizzes that will empower
you along your investing journey!
ESMA is on Instagram!
@ESMAcomms
Empowering retail investors
Smart choices make for
smarter investing
ESMA is on Instagram!

info@esma.europa.eu
www.esma.europa.eu
Contact info
Press contact information
ESMAcomms
Social Media
18
European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA)
press@esma.europa.eu
Spotlight on Markets
January & February 2026
ESMAcomms
