In this edition
Simplification of EU reporting
frameworks for funds and transactions
Sixth stress test exercise for Central
Counterparties
Call for evidence on the structure of
European equity markets
“A NEW ERA FOR EU CAPITAL
MARKETS” KEY CONFERENCE
TAKEAWAYS
Spotlight on Markets – April & May 2026
© peshkov, GettyImages-2214346556
EDITION
N° 69

In this issue
ESMA in April and May
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
2
“A New Era for EU Capital Markets” Key Conference
Takeaways
4
14ESMA launches a call for evidence on restricted
subscription and private credit ratings
5ESMA advances the simplification of EU reporting
frameworks for funds and transactions
ESMA launches its sixth stress test exercise for Central
Counterparties 8
11ESMA issues guidance on effective use of resolution
tools in CCP crisis planning
ESMA launches a call for evidence on the structure of
European equity markets
12
16ESMA releases reporting templates and instructions for the
Active Account Requirement
17ESMA consults on guidelines on endorsement under
the ESG Ratings Regulation

In this issue
3
Look ahead
Contact info 31
Consultations and events 30
20ESMA consults on a new simplified approach to updating
MMF stress test parameters
Joint Committee annual report highlights digitalisation,
cyber resilience and sustainable finance as key priorities
of 2025
21ESMA promotes proportionate supervision of MiFID II
sustainability requirements
23
ESMA outlines enforcement activities for corporate
reporting across the EEA in 2025
24ESMA support ESEF implementation with updated
taxonomy
26ESMA identifies areas for further supervisory convergence
on compliance and internal audit in the funds sector
19
28European Commission launches call for candidates for the
ESAs’ Board of Appeal
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
29 ESMA participated in Europe’s day

You can watch the Conference here
Discussions focused on the ambition to build more integrated, efficient and
attractive markets, with the Savings and Investment Union at the heart of the
debate. In a rapidly changing geopolitical and technological environment,
participants highlighted the importance of collective action at EU level to unlock
Europe’s full potential.
4
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
“A New Era for EU Capital Markets”
Key Conference Takeaways
The ESMA Conference “A New Era for EU Capital Markets” brought together a
wide range of stakeholders from across Europe and beyond, including public
authorities, market participants and consumer organisations, for a day of
insightful discussions and exchange.
Marking ESMA’s 15th anniversary, the Conference provided an opportunity to
reflect on the Authority’s evolution from a crisis ‑ response body into a globally
recognised supervisory authority, while also looking ahead to the future of
Europe’s capital markets.

Final report on the integrated collection of funds’ data
“ESMA is advancing on the EU-wide simplification of regulatory
reporting, targeting both funds reporting and transaction
reporting. The objective is to reduce operational burden for
market participants by introducing the principle of ‘reporting
once’, while also improving data quality and supervisory
effectiveness. This will be achieved through harmonisation and
enhanced data sharing between authorities across the EU.
The data we collect from market participants is and will
continue to be central to how ESMA and the NCAs supervise
markets. It underpins our risk assessments and allows us to
identify vulnerabilities early, supporting our work to safeguard
integrity and financial stability across EU markets.”
Verena Ross, Chair
5
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU financial
markets regulator and supervisor, has launched a harmonised approach to
funds reporting and has set a clear path towards streamlined, more efficient
transaction reporting across European markets.
ESMA advances the simplification of
EU reporting frameworks for funds
and transactions
The two reports are complementary pillars of ESMA’s broader simplification and
burden reduction agenda, launched last year.
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026

Interim report on the Call for Evidence on a comprehensive
approach for the simplification of financial transaction reporting
6
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
Final Report on the integrated collection of funds’ data
In the report, ESMA sets out a strategic move away from fragmented national
reporting towards a common EU reporting framework, centred on a common
and single reporting template designed to remain proportionate for different
fund sizes and investment strategies, while meeting supervisory needs. The
aim is to reduce duplication, improve data consistency and enhance the
usability of data for authorities.
To support this approach, ESMA outlines a hybrid operational model, under
which data validation, storage and analytics would be organised at EU level,
while data collection would remain at national level. By facilitating data sharing
across authorities, the centralised hub will offer efficiency gains not only for
authorities but will also contribute further to burden reduction by limiting
duplicative data requests.
Next steps on funds reporting include the development of regulatory and
implementing technical standards (RTS, ITS), that will be presented next year.
After that, the implementation of the new template and the rest of
recommendations will be gradually introduced, with the first phase focusing on
the integration of reporting under AIMFD and UCITS, and the second phase that
would expand the integrated framework to other reporting obligations.
Interim report on the holistic review of transaction reporting
Based on the feedback received from more than 100 respondents to the
previous call for evidence on transaction reporting simplification, ESMA has
identified the main challenges in the current reporting frameworks, and the
most promising approaches to overcome them: instrument ‑ based and dual-
side simplifications and the implementation of a “report once” framework
across EMIR, MiFIR and SFTR in the long term.

ESMA advances the simplification of EU reporting frameworks for
funds and transactions - Press release
7
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
Most respondents indicated that overlapping and inconsistent reporting
requirements, frequent and unsynchronised regulatory changes, fragmented
reporting channels and dual reporting are major drivers of cost and complexity.
Considering the need to perform a thorough cost-benefit analysis, the report
does not contain policy recommendations yet. As part of the next steps, ESMA
will further engage with markets participants, including through an open
hearing that will be held on 28 May, before moving forward with final
recommendations to be published by mid-year.
Background
Both reports are flagship deliverables of ESMA’s wider Simplification and
Burden Reduction (SBR) initiative, to address growing complexity and
operational costs stemming from EU reporting requirements.

Mandated under the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR), the
stress test aims to assess the resilience of CCPs to adverse market
developments and identify any potential shortcomings. It also evaluates the
aggregate effects of CCPs’ recovery and resolution arrangements on Union
financial stability and, where necessary, enables ESMA to issue
recommendations. The exercise covers 16 CCPs including all authorised EU
CCPs as well as two UK based Tier 2 CCPs.
8
“In a world continuously challenged by multiple crises,
stress test exercises are critical to ensure that financial
market infrastructures have the necessary tools,
resources and arrangements in place to be resilient.
That is why, for ESMA, the CCP stress test is a key
supervisory tool, and we continue to develop it further
to better measure potential risks to the EU financial
eco-system.”
Verena Ross, Chair
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, has launched its sixth stress test exercise
for Central Counterparties (CCPs). The CCP stress test framework drafted by
ESMA for the purpose of this exercise is supported by an adverse market
scenario provided by the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB).
ESMA launches its sixth stress test
exercise for Central Counterparties
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026

“CCPs play a critical role in managing counterparty credit
risk in financial markets. Their resilience is essential for
safeguarding financial stability, especially during periods
of pronounced stress. This year’s exercise onboards the
Recovery and Resolution Component to measure the
aggregate impact from the activation of CCPs’ recovery
and resolution arrangements.”
Klaus Löber, Chair of the CCP Supervisory Committee
Read the Final Report on the Framework for the 6th
ESMA Stress Test Exercise for Central Counterparties
9
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
ESMA’s supervisory stress tests complement those run daily by individual CCPs by
assessing the system-wide implications of potential member defaults and market
shocks.

Next steps
Components of the test framework
This year’s exercise further develops ESMA’s framework by introducing
enhanced methodologies and expanding the analytical scope. Developed in
cooperation with National Competent Authorities (NCAs) and the ESRB, the
framework covers:
10
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
ESMA launched the data request at the beginning of May, followed by a joint
validation of the submissions together with National Competent Authorities. The
exercise will then proceed to the analysis and computation of results and, finally,
the preparation of the report. The stress test will conclude with the publication
of the final outcomes planned for the first quarter of 2027.

1.Credit Stress Test: Evaluates whether CCPs’ financial resources are sufficient
to absorb losses from combinations of market shocks and multiple clearing
member defaults.
2.Concentration Risk Analysis: Assesses the market impact and liquidation
costs resulting from the close-out of large, concentrated positions.
3.Reverse Stress Test: Increases the severity of scenarios to assess the
absorption capacity of the system and identify potential breaking points.
4.Recovery and Resolution Component: For the first time, ESMA will assess the
aggregate effects of CCPs’ recovery and resolution tools on stakeholders.

CCP resolution briefing on the operationalisation of the write-down and
conversion of instruments of ownership and debt instruments or other unsecured
liabilities tool
11
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, has today published a resolution briefing
for Central Counterparties (CCPs). The briefing provides practical guidance to
National Resolution Authorities (NRAs) on how to operationalise the write-
down and conversion of instruments tool (WDCI).
ESMA issues guidance on effective use
of resolution tools in CCP crisis
planning
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
Developed by ESMA's CCP Resolution Committee, the briefing provides a
methodology for NRAs to consider when including WDCI in CCP resolution
plans.
NRAs should define the relevant data to be
collected by the CCPs, with a view to calibrate
the resources available through a WDCI. In
doing so, NRAs should take into account the
impact on relevant stakeholders, such as
clearing members, financial markets and
financial market infrastructures. NRAs should
ensure that processes are in place to
implement WDCI effectively, including
preparations for the subsequent
reorganisation of the CCP following the WDCI
has been applied. Following the previous
briefings on CCP critical functions and
resolution cash calls, this briefing contributes
to building a single resolution rulebook with a
clear focus on operationalisation of the tools
available to NRAs.

12
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
ESMA launches a call for evidence on
the structure of European equity
markets
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) has published a call
for evidence (CfE) presenting a data driven analysis of the evolution of
trading in European equity markets between 2022 and 2025, based on MiFIR
transaction reporting data. The CfE invites stakeholder feedback on
observed trends and their potential regulatory implications.
The analysis shows that European equity markets continue to function well
overall:
At the same time, ESMA observes a decline in lit continuous trading between
2022 and 2025. This decline has been offset by increased activity in other
trading mechanisms, mainly closing auctions, frequent batch auctions and
systematic internaliser (SI) trading.
Call for Evidence on the market structure of European equity markets
On ‑ book trading has also been relatively stable, accounting for
around 75–80% of trading volume over the period.
The share of addressable liquidity has remained
stable at around 85% of total trading volume.
The paper also analyses how liquidity is allocated across different trading
mechanisms on a country ‑ by ‑ country basis and seeks input on the concept of
addressable liquidity and its treatment under RTS 1, including possible
adjustments to the post ‑ trade transparency flagging framework.

Next steps
13
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
Besides the CfE, ESMA takes the opportunity to inform stakeholders of the
repeal of the Q&A clarifying that periodic auctions are subject to the tick-size
regime.
ESMA invites stakeholders’ views on the functioning of European stock
markets by 30 June 2026, and will issue a feedback statement in the second
half of 2026 on this call for evidence.
ESMA will continue monitoring market developments, considering recent
MiFIR changes, including the move to a single volume cap and enhanced SI
transparency obligations, as well as on different types of trading mechanisms
such as closing auctions.

ESMA launches a call for evidence on
restricted subscription and private
credit ratings
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, has launched a call for evidence to gather
stakeholder views on the purposes, market practices, needs and risks
associated with restricted subscription and private credit ratings.
14
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
ESMA is encouraging all interested stakeholders to share views, data and analysis
including:
The characteristics and use cases of restricted subscription and private
credit ratings, including their benefits compared with publicly
disclosed ratings.
The characteristics of the parties who are contracting for restricted
subscription and private credit ratings and those to whom they are
disclosed or distributed.
Evidence on whether, and to what extent, the analytical processes,
governance arrangements, and internal controls applied to
restricted subscription and private credit ratings are comparable to
those applied to public credit ratings.
Stakeholders are invited to provide evidence ‑ based responses, including
quantitative information where available, as well as concrete examples drawn from
market practice. ESMA will consider all responses received by 31 May 2026.
Call for Evidence on the restricted subscription and private credit ratings

Next steps
ESMA will review the responses received in the second quarter of 2026 with a
view to assessing whether specific regulatory adjustments or clarifications may
be needed to enhance clarity on the application of the CRA Regulation.
15
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
Background
The use of restricted subscription and private credit ratings has been increasing
in recent years. This development raises questions about the purposes and
market needs these products are intended to serve; how they are produced,
distributed and used in practice; and the potential benefits and risks associated
with selective access to rating information.
Calls for evidence form part of ESMA’s commitment to evidence ‑ based
policymaking and stakeholder engagement, enabling ESMA to better
understand market developments and practices.

Next steps
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, has published the reporting templates and
instructions for the Active Account Requirement (AAR) reporting under
European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR 3).
ESMA releases reporting templates
and instructions for the Active Account
Requirement
16
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
The new templates set out in detail how entities subject to the AAR should
report the required information to their competent authorities. Through this
development, ESMA aims to ensure a harmonised and efficient approach to AAR
reporting across the EU, providing standardised templates and clear instructions
while facilitating consistent supervisory practices.
The first AAR reporting submission is expected on 31 July 2026, covering the
period from 25 June 2025, when the AAR became applicable, to 30 June 2026.
Thereafter, reporting will take place on six-months basis, with submissions due
on 31 January and 31 July each year, each covering a twelve ‑ month reference
period.

17
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) has launched a public
consultation on draft guidelines on endorsement under the ESG Ratings
Regulation1.
ESMA consults on guidelines on
endorsement under the ESG Ratings
Regulation
Background
The consultation paper sets out ESMA’s proposed approach to the endorsement
of non-EU ESG ratings under the regulatory framework and seeks feedback from
ESG rating providers and other stakeholders on the draft guidelines.
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
The ESG Ratings Regulation establishes a regulatory framework for providers of
ESG ratings in the European Union. As part of this framework, and in order to
ensure market integrity and investor protection, the Regulation includes
provisions which set out how ESG rating providers that are established in the
Union can endorse ratings from outside the Union.
The guidelines aim to support the consistent application of the endorsement
regime, in particular, by providing guidance on the information to be submitted
as part of an ESG Rating Provider’s application to endorse ESG ratings.
By consulting publicly, ESMA is seeking input on the proposed guidelines to
ensure the guidance is clear, proportionate and workable in practice, while
remaining aligned with the objectives of the ESG Ratings Regulation.
To support the implementation of these provisions, ESMA has developed draft
guidelines on endorsement under the ESG Ratings Regulation.

Next steps
ESMA welcomes comments on the consultation paper until 29 May 2026. The
feedback received will be considered by ESMA in the finalisation of the
guidelines.
Following the consultation, ESMA will assess the responses and decide on the
final form of the guidelines, in line with its mandate under the ESG Ratings
Regulation. Further information on the outcome of the consultation and the
adoption of the guidelines will be communicated before the end of July 2026.
Consultation Paper for Guidelines on Endorsement under Article
11 of the ESG Rating Regulation
18
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026

Read the Joint Committee Annual Report 2025
19
The Joint Committee of the European Supervisory Authorities (EBA, EIOPA and
ESMA – the ESAs) has published its Annual Report for 2025, setting out the
main priorities and achievements of its cross-sectoral work over the past
year. In 2025, the Joint Committee focused on protecting consumers in
increasingly digital financial markets, strengthening operational and cyber
resilience through the implementation of the Digital Operational Resilience
Act (DORA), improving the effectiveness of sustainable finance disclosures,
and enhancing cross-sectoral risk monitoring.
Joint Committee annual report
highlights digitalisation, cyber
resilience and sustainable finance as
key priorities of 2025
Chaired by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority
(EIOPA), in 2025, the Joint Committee continued to act as a key coordination
platform, supporting close cooperation and information exchange between the
ESAs, the European Commission and the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB).
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
The Joint Committee also advanced a range of other cross-sectoral initiatives,
including work to enhance the EU securitisation framework, progress on the
European Single Access Point (ESAP), and support for financial innovation
through the European Forum for Innovation Facilitators (EFIF).
In line with the European Commission’s priorities, the Joint Committee further
contributed to efforts to simplify the EU financial regulatory framework and
reduce unnecessary complexity, notably in the areas of sustainable finance and
packaged retail and insurance-based investment products (PRIIPs).

20
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
ESMA consults on a new simplified
approach to updating MMF stress test
parameters
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, has launched a consultation on a new
approach to updating the parameters for stress test scenarios under the
Money Market Funds framework.
ESMA proposes replacing the current annual amendments to Section 5 of the
Guidelines with an annual web-based publication of the calibration parameters.
Read the Consultation paper on the Guidelines on stress test
scenarios under the MMF Regulation
The Guidelines would continue to define the stress testing framework and
methodology, while the website would serve as a single point of access for the
latest annual calibrations.
The proposed approach aims to simplify the update process and improve
accessibility, allowing market participants to apply updated parameters
immediately after approval. It is also intended to reduce compliance and
supervisory burdens, in line with ESMA’s Simplification and Burden Reduction
(SBR) initiative.
Next steps
Feedback should be submitted by 6 August 2026. ESMA will then consider
the feedback received and expects to publish the corresponding final report
in H2 2026. The new procedure for the update of the parameters will apply
with the next update, which is expected at the end of 2026.

ESMA promotes proportionate
supervision of MiFID II sustainability
requirements
21
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, has issued a statement presenting the
results of its Common Supervisory Action (CSA) on how sustainability is
integrated into firms’ suitability assessment as well as into processes and
procedures for product governance.
The statement highlights key themes emerging from the supervisory exercise
and sets out high ‑ level interim supervisory expectations, notably in relation to:
Read the Statement on results of the Common Supervisory
Action on MiFID II sustainability aspects
the collection and treatment of clients’ sustainability preferences;
the categorisation and matching of products to those preferences;
the application of the portfolio approach; and
the target market assessment of products.
ESMA reaffirms the importance of sustainability and encourages firms to
continue implementing the MiFID II sustainability requirements, recognising that
the CSA has been conducted at a time when the sustainable finance framework
is undergoing significant revision.

Next steps
ESMA will consider the results of this work for any future updates of the MiFID
II Delegated Acts on sustainability and the related ESMA Guidelines, with the
aim to simplify the framework and support more consistent and effective
application
22
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
In view of these developments, and reflecting ESMA’s strategic priority of
promoting simplification and reducing undue burden, ESMA invites national
competent authorities to adopt a proportionate supervisory approach. This
includes fostering dialogue with firms during the transition period, rather than
prioritising enforcement actions, without prejudice to cases involving clear
breaches or mis ‑ selling.

23
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, has published its Report on 2025 Corporate
reporting enforcement and regulatory activities. The report provides an
overview of how national enforcers and ESMA supervised corporate reporting
across the European Economic Area (EEA) during 2025.
ESMA outlines enforcement activities
for corporate reporting across the EEA
in 2025
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
Read the Report on 2025 Corporate reporting enforcement and
regulatory activities
In 2025, financial reporting enforcement continued to promote disclosures that
are material, transparent, entity specific, and useful for decision ‑ making. In
sustainability reporting, this was the first year of enforcement of the European
Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) for in-scope jurisdictions, alongside
the application of the ESMA Guidelines on Enforcement of Sustainability
Information (GLESI). Digital reporting remained a supervisory priority, as
enforcers worked on improving the quality, consistency, and usability of marked
up financial information in ESEF.
Addressed primarily to issuers, auditors, and investors, the report offers practical
messages from enforcement experience to help strengthen the quality and
transparency of corporate reporting going forward. It presents enforcement
activities in financial reporting, sustainability reporting, and digital reporting
under the European Single Electronic Format (ESEF) and assesses issuers’
compliance with ESMA’s 2024 European Common Enforcement Priorities (ECEP).

Find more about ESEF Taxonomy 2025
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, has published the 2025 European Single
Electronic Format (ESEF) XBRL taxonomy files, together with an updated ESEF
Conformance Suite. These materials support issuers and software vendors in
preparing 2026 IFRS consolidated financial statements using the most
up ‑ to ‑ date ESEF format.
ESMA supports ESEF implementation
with updated taxonomy
24
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
The 2025 taxonomy reflects the introduction of IFRS 18 Presentation and
Disclosure in Financial Statements, effective from 1 January 2027, with early
application permitted. The ESEF taxonomy includes two entry points, allowing
issuers to report under either IAS 1 and IFRS 18. This approach facilitates prompt
understanding of the new structure, encourages timely preparation, and lowers
implementation risks.
ESMA does not plan to amend the ESEF RTS or taxonomy in 2026. This follows
the IFRS Foundation’s decision not to issue a 2026 IFRS Accounting Taxonomy
update and will provide greater regulatory stability and more time for
implementation.

Next steps

ESMA encourages issuers and software providers to consult the IFRS
Foundation’s guidance on the use of the 2025 IFRS Accounting Taxonomy for
2026 reporting periods when preparing for upcoming reporting requirements.
Stakeholders wishing to provide feedback or raise questions on the 2025 ESEF
Taxonomy and Conformance Suite are invited to contact
esef@esma.europa.eu.

Find more about ESEF Conformance Suite 2025
25
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026

26
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
ESMA identifies areas for further
supervisory convergence on
compliance and internal audit in the
funds sector
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial
markets regulator and supervisor, has published the results of its 2025
Common Supervisory Action (CSA) on the compliance and internal audit
functions of fund managers, carried out with the participation of all EU and
EEA national supervisors.
The EU-wide review found that most fund managers comply with key
requirements under the AIFMD and UCITS framework. At the same time, the CSA
identified governance weaknesses, particularly in the independence of control
functions, the quality and implementation of internal policies, and the way senior
management and boards exercise oversight.
While most entities had relevant policies and procedures in place, national
competent authorities (NCAs) observed significant differences in their quality
and practical implementation, notably depending on the size, nature and
complexity of market participants concerned.
The report also sets out examples of good
and poor practices identified across the
compliance and internal audit functions,
highlighting where controls were effective
and where further strengthening is needed.
The CSA was conducted under a common
assessment framework. NCAs carried out
supervisory activities throughout 2025, using
desk-based reviews and, where
appropriate, on-site inspections.

Next steps

While acknowledging the overall positive outcome of the CSA, ESMA
encourages NCAs to follow up on the breaches and vulnerabilities identified,
to better understand their root causes and to ensure that effective remedial
actions are implemented in a timely manner. ESMA will continue to promote
exchanges among NCAs on this topic, including through follow-up supervisory
actions, to further enhancing supervisory convergence across the EU funds
sector.
Read the Final Report on the Common Supervisory Action on
Compliance and Internal Audit Functions
27
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026

European Commission launches call
for candidates for the ESAs’ Board of
Appeal
28
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
The European Commission has launched a call for expression of interest for
the appointment of members to the Board of Appeal of the three European
Supervisory Authorities (EBA, EIOPA and ESMA – the ESAs).
Inclusion on the reserve list does not
guarantee appointment as a Member
or Alternate of the Board of Appeal.
When a vacancy arises, the
Management Boards of the respective
ESAs, following consultation with their
Boards of Supervisors, will select and
appoint a candidate from the reserve
list. Candidates nominated as
Members or Alternates may also be
invited by the European Parliament to
make a statement and respond to
questions.
This call aims to establish a reserve list of qualified candidates to fill vacancies
that may arise within the Board of Appeal. The reserve list will remain valid for a
period of five years from the date of its adoption.
Further details on the call for candidates, including application requirements
and deadlines, are available in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Applications must be submitted by noon on 8 June 2026.

29
ESMA marked Europe Day in the heart of Paris, joining forces with fellow EU
institutions, including the European Banking Authority, to engage with visitors
and foster dialogue. The event provided an opportunity to meet people
interested in learning more about ESMA’s work, ask questions and connect
directly with the team.
ESMA participated in Europe Day
Spotlight on Markets
April & May 2026
The day highlighted the importance of bringing European institutions closer to
citizens, while showcasing how ESMA contributes to trust and confidence in
financial markets. ESMA colleagues played a key role in creating an open and
engaging atmosphere, making the celebration a success.

30
Events
Click on the event
Date
Webinar on the Quantum computing in financial markets:
applications, investments and prospects
02 Jun
11 Jun
Workshop on the Call for Evidence on the structure of
European equity markets
Spotlight on Markets
Consultations
Click on the consultation
Deadline
30 Jun
Call for Evidence on the market structure of European
equity markets
07 Jul
Consultation on Amendments to the Guidelines on
standardised procedures and messaging protocols und…
06 Aug
Consultation on the Guidelines on stress test scenarios
under the MMF Regulation
18 Jun Webinar on the sixth data quality and use report

info@esma.europa.eu
www.esma.europa.eu
Contact info
Press contact information
ESMAcomms
Social Media
31
European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA)
press@esma.europa.eu
Spotlight on Markets
ESMAcomms
ESMA is on Instagram!
@ESMAcomms
Empowering retail investors
Smart choices make for
smarter investing
Smart choices make for
smarter investing
